Interacting with Ethereum live networks is a huge accomplishment.
Coming soon, you'll be able to read any information you want from
the contracts on these networks and render them to a website.
While this is extremely helpful,
there are some downsides to working directly with
the live Ethereum main and test networks when you're just getting started with a project.
For one, anytime you want to make a transaction,
it's going to cause gas.
You'll learn more about exactly what gases shortly,
but basically it's like the miners fees you saw on Bitcoin.
It's a small fee taken from the participants in
the transaction that goes towards paying for the cost of running the computations.
On the main network, any gas used cost Ethereum,
which is worth real money,
and you can only get it by purchasing it.
You don't really want to be running lots of tests if they cost your real money each time.
An alternative you've seen is using the test network.
This is great because it's free,
and you can always get more Test Ether from a Test Faucet.
But that's not too convenient.
To get a few accounts together with
enough Ether to play around with is a bit of a hassle.
For example, say for some reason that you needed to test
transactions using five accounts that had 50 Ether each.
You'd have a tough time doing that on the test network.
Also, when using the test network,
you're still depending on the network to verify transactions.
Any transaction that takes place goes through the network in real-time,
and testing out features this way could become extremely tedious or time-consuming.
To solve these types of problems and more,
a tool named Ganache was created that allows you to deploy your own local blockchain.
The blockchain is quick to setup and comes
preloaded with 10 accounts that each hold 100 Ether.
This makes it extremely simple to get up and running
with and allows you to test quickly and efficiently.
Also, transactions happen instantaneously and are
viewable in either a graphic user interface or a command line interface,
depending on what you prefer.
So, that's the main purpose of Ganache.
It's a quick way to start up a local blockchain
that you can use for testing the application you'll build.
It's easy to install, and coming up,
I'll show you how to get up and running with it for yourself.